So what's that CORS thing,
and that course problem,?
As I mentioned, I did already cover a CORS earlier
in the course in their rest API section.
So there you'll all define that same information.
In the end CORS, short for cross original resource sharing
is a security mechanism and forced by the browser
that makes sure that server A can't just send
a request to server B and get data from it.
Server B instead needs to allow that.
So if you have a front end application,
running on server A, let's say
our react single page application running
on local host 3000, and we have our other application,
our backend, let's say,
running on server B in this case, our Rest API,
then the communication from A to B
will not be possible just like that.
By default browsers prevent GET, POST, PATCH
and so on requests, if frontend
and backend server are not the same one.
And here on local host, even different ports,
imply different servers.
So local host 3000 is not the same as local host 8,000.
Now this is a default security mechanism
however, we can tell the browser
that we do want to allow access,
and we have to set this setting on the server
where we do host the data.
So on the backend, on the Rest API
there, we can set specific response headers,
to responses we sent back to the front end application
that tell the browser that serves the front end application
that getting that data is okay,
and the front then should be able to proceed.
And it's really important to also keep in mind
that this is just a browser security mechanism,
which is why we had no problems fetching
and storing data with Postman.
This simply doesn't care about this CORS thing.
The browser does, however,
and that's where we're getting a CORS error here.
Now, how can we manipulate our Deno code
to make sure that such requests are possible.
Well, we need to switch to our Deno code
and for that, I'm going to make sure
that my Deno extension is turned on again,
to ensure that I get proper IDE support
and now here, on the backend and the backend code,
I wanna add a new middleware, which essentially makes sure
that every outgoing response
has the proper headers attached.
So for that here, we have our middleware function
with context and next, and with the context object,
we can get access to the response object
and there we can get access to our headers.
And on this headers optic, there is a set method
to set a new header on that outgoing response.
And now there are three essential headers
which we should set on the outgoing responses.
The first header is the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header.
This controls of whichever domains
will be allowed to access our resources.
And here we can set this to star,
which means every domain is allowed to access our resources.
So every other domain may send the request.
Of course, we could also restrict this
to the domains we own.
The other important header, which we need to add,
the second important header, which we set in the same way
is the Access-Control-Allow-Methods header.
This controls, which kind of HTTP methods
can be used for requests being sent to this backend
and here for this API, I want to allow get, post, put,
and then also delete requests,
because these are the four routes we registered.
So here we can add, get, post, put and delete
comma separated to allow for those requests.
Now, the last header which we need to add with headers set
is the Access-Control-Allow-Headers header.
This allows which headers may be set by the frontend
when it requests data.
And there we should allow the content type header, why?
Because on the front end app, so in the frontend app folder,
under source components Todos,
we can see that actually for put and for post requests,
we do a set to content type two application Json,
this is important because this header
on the request that's being sent to our Deno server,
will tell Deno and the Oak framework
that the data attached to this request
will be in the Json format and that matters
because this allows Oak on the backend
to automatically parse that
when we try to get access to the request body.
So to get to this parsing and to make sure
that the incoming request data is transformed from Json
to JavaScript object for that to happen,
we need to add the content type application Json header
on the request sent from the frontend,
and that end turns there for something we need to allow
with the appropriate CORS header here.
And with all of that, we of course need to make sure
that they're after the next middleware in line is reached.
And we do this by calling next, but again, important
I mentioned it in the last course section
in the Oak framework, you should await next
and there for add async here.
If the next middleware in line is a synchronous
and our route middlewares will be asynchronous
because our route middlewares do use async keyword as well
we do have promises in there.
So we should await for those actions to complete
before the response is sent back,
and we do this by awaiting next.
With this out of the way, we can restart our backend server
by repeating does run command.
And if we now go back to the client site application
and we reload local host 3000,
you see the error here has gone.
And if we now add Todo, learn Deno,
this is being added here.
If you click edit, it's loaded here for editing,
and I can add more exclamation marks for example
and here we go.
I can add another Todo like also learn Node
and that's gonna also edit.
And of course I can also delete a Todo,
if I reload the app that also is maintained.
Of course, if I ever shut down the backend server,
all the data is lost though,
because we currently still only save our data in memory.
In this Todos array into Todo routes file here.
Now that's something we'll change next.
How about adding an actual database?
Wouldn't that be more realistic?